Yes we segment out of the ground plane because we want to know the height above ground,
and for the different objects,
and so there you need to know where is the ground
and this is where we segment out ground plane.
Also from sensor fusion perspective,
the ground plane is important because that's the road,
because then you can say, okay,
is the road is free space.
You also want to know for example,
you get reflections of lane markings,
so you have all those lane markings that are in the ground plane as separate objects.
Yeah, we generally do that.
Hills effect lidar obviously in terms of field of view.
You do not see over the crown of
a hill usually until you are relatively feet far up.
Other than that, you can actually detect the slope.
There are ways of detecting the slope of the hill with lidar.
I wouldn't say it affects the lidar,
it is just something in the environment that you would detect.